# Modern Security Operations 

## Tools & Platforms

1. Extended Detection & Response (XDR) - High quality detection for each enterprise asset + investigation remediation capabilities. 
2. Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) - Hunting + Investigation platform with Automation and Orchestration (can include ML, UEBA, & Security Data Lake capabilities). Provides a broad enterprise view.
3. Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR) - reduce analyst effort/time per incident. increasing overall SOC capacity.
4. Case Management - Ensure consistent workflow and measurement of success.

## Security Operations Model - Tiers, Functions, and Tools

### Automation Tier

- near real-time resolution of known incident types with automation. 
- These are well-defined attacks that the organization has seen many times.
- XDR alerts etc.

### Triage (Tier 1)

- focus on rapid remediation of a high volume of well-known incident types that still need quick human judgement.
- often tasked with approving automated remediation workflows.
- identifying anything anomalous or interesting that need Tier 2 escalation or consultation.
- **90% true positive**- a standard that is recommended for any alert feed that will need analyst intervention.
- **Alert Ratio** -  XDR alerts produce most of the high-quality alerts.
- **Tool Integration**
- **Focus** - These teams can't maintain their high speed of resolution for all types of technologies and scenarios, so they keep their focus narrow on a few technical areas and/or scenarios.

### Investigation and Incident Management (Tier 2)

- this team serves as escalation point for issues from Triage (Tier 1) team.
- directly monitors alerts that indicate a more sophisticated attacker that trigger behavioural alerts, special case alerts related to business-critical assets, and monitoring for ongoing attack campaigns.
- proactively review the Triage team alert queue.
- may proactively hunt using XDR tools in their spare time.
- provides deeper investigation into a lower volume of more complex attacks, often multi-stage attacks conducted by human attack operators.
- pilots new/unfamiliar alert types to document processes for Triage team and automation
- often including alerts generated by Microsoft Defender for Cloud on cloud hosted apps, VMs, containers and Kubernetes, SQL databases, etc.

**Incident Management** - takes on the non-technical aspects of managing incidents including coordination with other teams like communications, legal, leadership, and other business stakeholders.

### Hunt and Incident Management (Tier 3)

- multi-disciplinary team focused on identifying attackers that may have slipped through the reactive detections and handling major business-impacting events.
- this team proactively hunts for undetected threats, assists with escalations and advanced forensics for reactive investigations
- also works on refining alerts and automation

### Threat Intelligence 

- intel teams provide context and insights to support all other functions
- may use a dedicated threat intelligence platform (TIP)
- reactive technical research for active incidents
- proactive technical research into threat groups, attack trends, high profile attacks, emerging techniques.
- strategic analysis, research, and insights to inform business and technical processes and priorities.
