# Mitigating Incidents using Microsoft 365 Defender

## The Defender Portal 

- is available at https://security.microsoft.com
- provides a holistic view of your Microsoft 365 environment.
- provides actionable insights to help reduce risks and safeguard your digital estate
- helps you to investigate alerts, understand what they mean, and collate evidence associated with the incident to build effective remediation plans
- uses role-based access control (different roles will see different cards at the Home screen)
- other than the Defender products it also provides access to below portals
	- Microsoft Purview (compliance management)
	- Azure AD (organization identity management)
	- Azure AD Identity Platform (vulnerability protection for org. identities)
	- Azure Information Protection (protect organization emails, docs, and info)
	- Microsoft Defender for Cloud (threat protection for Azure and non-Azure workloads)

## Incident Management

**Incident** - An incident is a collection of correlated alerts that make up the story of an attack.
- M365 Defender aggregates alerts across devices, users, and mailboxes in the network to give a comprehensive view.
- M365 Defender, if enabled, can automatically investigate and remediate alerts through automation and AI.
- incidents from last 30 days are shown in the indcident queue, so defenders can see which incidents should be prioritized based on risk-level and other factor.
- it is also possible to rename, assign, classify, add comments, and add tags to incidents for better incident management. 
- you can also move alerts from one incident to another from the Alerts tab.

## Incident Prioritization
- Incidents in the incident queue are automatically named based on incident metadata.
- automatic naming allows defenders to quickly understand the scope of the incident.
- filters can also be applied to sort incidents such as- "Assigned to", "Categories", "Data sensitivity", "Device Group" etc.